In my gymnasium, in addition to lessons in the Russian language and literature, I run a literary studio, where teenagers come from 13-14 years old. In these classes, the children and I read and discuss the latest Russian prose. It is a misconception that teenagers are not available for it, that they are attracted only by fantasy and horror films. No, they read with keen interest the stories of contemporary Russian-speaking writers that I recommend to them, and they vigorously discuss them. And our studio is open, parents often come to classes, and, along with the children, participate in the discussion.

So, I have long noticed that such joint reading and discussion not only develops children, but also improves their relationship with their parents (as well as with grandparents), helps different generations in the family to better understand each other.

And, of course, such joint reading and discussion can take place not only in the format of a school literary studio, but also simply at home. The initiative, of course, here must come from the parents.

However, the question immediately arises: what exactly to read with children? In my opinion, short stories are best suited for this, and not stories and novels. This is a kind of reading that is not annoying, but very meaningful, deep, and can be discussed in detail in the family. It is important that these are stories from today, from life that children understand.

But where exactly can one get them, such stories? I taught my guys a long time ago to use the largest online resource that publishes high-quality contemporary prose and poetry - the Magazine Hall (magazines.russ.ru). In addition, a lot of good stories can be found in the long-list of the Yuri Kazakov Literary Prize (it is also published in the "Journal Hall").

It is clear that finding such stories for reading and discussion with teenagers requires a lot of work. I constantly monitor periodicals, go to bookstores and study the contents of shelves with modern prose. But I am a teacher, this is my job, but for parents, especially those who are far from philology, it will be more difficult. Therefore, I took the liberty of recommending to the readers of "Thomas" a few stories from those that we discussed together with children and parents in the classes of the literary studio. All these stories are freely available on the Internet.